Tutorial for optimization (#1205)
pymor/pymor: docs/source/tutorial_optimization.rst

    assert opt_along_path_adaptively_minimization_data['enrichments'] == 4

Conclusion and some general words about MOR methods for optimization
--------------------------------------------------------------------

In this tutorial we have seen how pyMOR can be used to speedup the optimizer
for PDE-constrained optimization problems.
We focused on several aspects of RB methods and showed how explicit gradient information
helps to reduce the computational cost of the optimizer.
We also saw that already standard RB methods may help to reduce the computational time.
It is clear that standard RB methods are especially of interest if an 
optimization problem needs to be solved multiple times.

Moreover, we focused on the lack of overall efficiency of standard RB methods.
To overcome this, we reduced the (normally) expensive offline time by choosing larger
tolerances for the greedy algorithm. 
We have also seen a way to overcome
the traditional offline/online splitting by only enriching the model along
the path of optimization or (even better) only enrich
the model if the standard error estimator goes above a certain tolerance.

> A main drawback of the content in this tutorial was that the choice of
> the tolerance ``atol`` that has been used to build the RB spaces
> cannot be known a priorily. This shows the need for
> certified and robust reduced methods. 
> 
> For some standard literature for faster and robust optimization tools we refer to
> `CGT00 <https://epubs.siam.org/doi/book/10.1137/1.9780898719857?mobileUi=0>`__ and
> `NW06 <https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-0-387-40065-5>`__.
> 
> For recent research on using trust-region methods for MOR of PDE-constrained
> optimization problems, we refer to 
> `YM13 <https://epubs.siam.org/doi/abs/10.1137/120869171>`__, 
> `QGVW17 <https://epubs.siam.org/doi/abs/10.1137/16M1081981>`__ and 
> `KMSOV <https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.09297>`__ where for the latter, pyMOR
> has been used for the numerical experiments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial we have only covered a few basic approaches to combine model
reduction with optimization.
For faster and more robust optimization algorithms we refer to the textbooks
`CGT00 <https://epubs.siam.org/doi/book/10.1137/1.9780898719857>`__ and
`NW06 <https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-0-387-40065-5>`__.
For recent research on combining trust-region methods with model reduction for
PDE-constrained optimization problems we refer to 
`YM13 <https://epubs.siam.org/doi/abs/10.1137/120869171>`__, 
`QGVW17 <https://epubs.siam.org/doi/abs/10.1137/16M1081981>`__ and 
`KMSOV <https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.09297>`__ where for the latter a pyMOR
implementation is available as supplementary material.
```

PDE-constrained optimization problems are not convex. In our case
changing the parameter functional :math:`\theta_{\mathcal{J}}` can
already result in a very different non-convex output functional.

In order to record some data in the optimization, we also define two
helpful functions for recording and reporting the results.

.. jupyter-execute::

    reference_minimization_data = {'num_evals': 0,
                                   'evaluations' : [],
                                   'evaluation_points': [],
                                   'time': np.inf}
    
    def record_results(function, data, mu):
        QoI = function(mu)
        data['num_evals'] += 1
        # we need to make sure to copy the data, since the added mu will be changed inplace by minimize afterwards
        data['evaluation_points'].append([fom.parameters.parse(mu)['diffusion'][:][0], 
                                          fom.parameters.parse(mu)['diffusion'][:][1]])
        data['evaluations'].append(QoI[0])
        return QoI
    
    def report(result, data, reference_mu=None):
        if (result.status != 0):
            print('\n failed!')
        else:

>             print('\n succeded!')

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            print('\n succeeded!')
```

that needs to be solved for all evaluations. Mathematically speaking,
for a physical domain :math:`\Omega \subset \mathbb{R}^d` and a
parameter set :math:`\mathcal{P} \subset \mathbb{R}^P`, we want to find
a local minimizer :math:`\mu \in \mathcal{P}` of

.. math::

   \min_{\mu \in \mathcal{P}} J(u_{\mu}, \mu),  \tag{P.a}

where :math:`u_{\mu} \in V := H^1_0(\Omega)` is the solution of

.. math::

   \begin{equation} \label{eq:primal}
   a_{\mu}(u_{\mu}, v) = f_{\mu}(v) \qquad \forall \, v \in V \tag{P.b}.
   \end{equation}

The equation :raw-latex:`\eqref{eq:primal}` is called the primal
equation and can be arbitrarily complex. MOR methods in the context of
PDE-constrained optimization problems thus aim to find a surrogate model
of :raw-latex:`\eqref{eq:primal}` to reduce the computational costs of
an evaluation of :math:`J(u_{\mu}, \mu)`.

Since :math:`u_{\mu}` is always related to :math:`\mu`, we can also
simplify (P) by using the so-called reduced objective functional
:math:`\mathcal{J}(\mu):= J(u_{\mu}, \mu)`. Note that 'reduced' is not
referring to the order of the model. We get the reduced optimization
problem: Find a local minimizer of

.. math::

    

>    \min_{\mu \in \mathcal{P}} \mathcal{J}(\mu),  \tag{$\hat{P}$}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   \min_{\mu \in \mathcal{P}} \mathcal{J}(\mu).  \tag{$\hat{P}$}
```

There exist plenty of different methods to solve (:math:`\hat{P}`) by
using MOR methods. Some of them rely on an RB method with traditional
offline/online splitting, which typically result in a very online
efficient approach. Recent research also tackles overall efficiency by

> overcoming the expensive offline approach which we will discuss further

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
overcoming the expensive offline phase, which we will discuss further
```

below.

In this tutorial, we use a simple linear scalar valued objective functional
and an elliptic primal equation to compare different approaches that solve
(:math:`\hat{P}`). For a more advanced problem class, we refer to 
`this project <https://github.com/TiKeil/NCD-corrected-TR-RB-approach-for-pde-opt>`__.

An elliptic model problem with a linear objective functional
------------------------------------------------------------

We consider a domain :math:`\Omega:= [-1, 1]^2`, a parameter set
:math:`\mathcal{P} := [0,\pi]^2` and the elliptic equation

.. math::

   - \nabla \cdot \big( \lambda_\mu \nabla u_\mu \big) = l

with data functions

.. math::

   \begin{align}

>    l(x, y) &= \tfrac{1}{2} \pi^2 cos(\tfrac{1}{2} \pi x) cos(\tfrac{1}{2} \pi y),\\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   l(x, y) &= \tfrac{1}{2} \pi^2 \cos(\tfrac{1}{2} \pi x) \cos(\tfrac{1}{2} \pi y),\\
```

   \lambda(\mu) &= \theta_0(\mu) \lambda_0 + \theta_1(\mu) \lambda_1,\\

>    \theta_0(\mu) &= 1.1 + sin(\mu_0)\mu_1,\\
>    \theta_1(\mu) &= 1.1 + sin(\mu_1),\\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   \theta_0(\mu) &= 1.1 + \sin(\mu_0)\mu_1,\\
   \theta_1(\mu) &= 1.1 + \sin(\mu_1),\\
```

integrals over :math:`u_\mu`, multiplied by an arbitrary \|Function\|,
are supported. These outputs can also be handled by the discretizer. In
our case, we make use of the :math:`L^2` output and multiply it by the
term :math:`\theta_\mu l_\mu`.

We now use the standard builtin discretization tool (see :doc:`tutorial_builtin_discretizer`)
to construct a full order \|StationaryModel\|. Since we intend to use a fixed
energy norm

.. math:: \|\,.\|_{\bar{\mu}} : = a_{\,\bar{\mu}}(.,.),

we also define :math:`\bar{\mu}`, which we parse via the argument
``mu_energy_product``. Also, we define the parameter space
:math:`\mathcal{P}` on which we want to optimize.

.. jupyter-execute::

    mu_bar = problem.parameters.parse([np.pi/2,np.pi/2])
    
    fom, data = discretize_stationary_cg(problem, diameter=1/50, mu_energy_product=mu_bar)
    parameter_space = fom.parameters.space(0, np.pi)

In case, you need an output functional that can not be defined in the
\|StationaryProblem\|, you can also directly define the
``output_functional`` in the \|StationaryModel\|.

.. jupyter-execute::

    output_functional = fom.rhs.H * theta_J 
    fom = fom.with_(output_functional=output_functional)

> To overcome that pyMORs outputs return a \|NumpyVectorArray\|, we have

Reviewer 2: Wasn't this changed in #1089?

            print('  num iterations:     {}'.format(result.nit))
            print('  num function calls: {}'.format(data['num_evals']))
            print('  time: {:.5f} seconds'.format(data['time']))
            if 'offline_time' in data:
                print('  offline time: {:.5f} seconds'.format(data['offline_time']))
            if 'enrichments' in data:
                print('  model enrichments: {}'.format(data['enrichments']))
        print('')

Optimizing with the FOM using finite differences
------------------------------------------------

There exist plenty optimization methods and this tutorial is not meant
to discuss the design and implementation of optimization methods. We
simply use the ``minimize`` function from ``scipy.optimize`` and use the
builtin ``L-BFGS-B`` routine which is a quasi-Newton method that can
also handle a constrained parameter space.

It is optional to give an expression for the gradient of the objective
functional to the ``minimize`` function. In case no gradient is given,
``minimize`` just approximates the gradient with finite differences.
This is not recommended because the gradient is inexact and the

> computation of finite difference requires even more evalutations of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
computation of finite differences requires even more evaluations of the
```

                          initial_guess.to_numpy(),
                          method='L-BFGS-B', jac=False,
                          bounds=(ranges, ranges),
                          options={'ftol': 1e-15})
    reference_minimization_data['time'] = perf_counter()-tic
    reference_mu = fom_result.x

.. jupyter-execute::

    report(fom_result, reference_minimization_data)

Taking a look at the result, we see that the optimizer needs :math:`9`
iterations to converge, but actually needs :math:`48` evaluations of the
full order model. Obiously, this is related to the computation of the
finite differences. We can visualize the optimization path by plotting
the chosen points during the minimization.

.. jupyter-execute::

    reference_plot = plot_3d_surface(fom_objective_functional, XX, YY, alpha=0.5)
    
    for mu in reference_minimization_data['evaluation_points']:
        addplot_xy_point_as_bar(reference_plot, mu[0], mu[1])

Optimizing with the ROM using finite differences
------------------------------------------------

We can use a standard RB method to build a surrogate model for the FOM.
As a result, the solution of the primal equation is no longer expensive

> and the optimization method has the chance to converge faster. For this,

Reviewer 2: You mean "faster" in the sense that each solution to the primal problem is faster, or do you mean that less optimization steps are required for convergence?

.. jupyter-execute::

    reference_plot = plot_3d_surface(fom_objective_functional, XX, YY, alpha=0.5)
    reference_plot_mean_z_lim = 0.5*(reference_plot.get_zlim()[0] + reference_plot.get_zlim()[1])
    
    for mu in reference_minimization_data['evaluation_points']:
        addplot_xy_point_as_bar(reference_plot, mu[0], mu[1], color='green',
                                z_range=(reference_plot.get_zlim()[0], reference_plot_mean_z_lim))
    
    for mu in RB_minimization_data['evaluation_points']:
        addplot_xy_point_as_bar(reference_plot, mu[0], mu[1], color='orange',
                               z_range=(reference_plot_mean_z_lim, reference_plot.get_zlim()[1]))

.. image:: output_44_1.png

Computing the gradient of the objective functional
--------------------------------------------------

A major issue of using finite differences for computing the gradient of
the objective functional is the number of evaluations of the objective
functional. In the FOM example from above we saw that
:math:`48 - 9 = 39` evaluations of the model were only due to the
computation of the finite differences. If the problem is more complex

> and the mesh is finer, this can lead us into a serious waste of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and the mesh is finer, this can lead to a serious waste of
```

                                 'time': np.inf,
                                 'offline_time': RB_greedy_data['time']}
    
    
    tic = perf_counter()
    opt_rom_result = minimize(partial(record_results, rom_objective_functional, opt_rom_minimization_data),
                      initial_guess.to_numpy(),
                      method='L-BFGS-B', 
                      jac=rom_gradient_of_functional,
                      bounds=(ranges, ranges),
                      options={'ftol': 1e-15})
    opt_rom_minimization_data['time'] = perf_counter()-tic
    report(opt_rom_result, opt_rom_minimization_data, reference_mu)

    

The online phase is even slightly faster than before but the offline
phase is obviously still the same as before. We also conclude that the
ROM model eventually gives less speedup by using a better optimization
method for the FOM and ROM. This is something that is a common issue for
MOR methods in the context of optimization.

Breaking the traditional offline/online splitting: enrich along the path of optimization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> We already figured that the main drawback for using RB methods in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We already figured out that the main drawback for using RB methods in the
```

context of optimization is the expensive offline time to build the
surrogate model. In the example above, we overcame this issue by
choosing a very high tolerance ``atol``. As a result, we can not be sure
that our surrogate model is accurate enough for our purpuses. In other
words, either we invest too much time to build an accurate model or we
face the danger of reducing with a bad surrogate for the whole parameter
space. Thinking about this issue again, it is important to notice that
we are solving an optimization problem which will eventually converge to
a certain parameter. Thus, it only matters that the surrogate is good in

> this particular reason as long as we are able to arrive at it. This

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this particular region as long as we are able to arrive at it. This
```

> gives hope that there must exists a more efficient way of using RB

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
gives hope that there must exist a more efficient way of using RB
```

> methods without trying to approximate the whole parameter space.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
methods without trying to approximate the FOM across the whole parameter space.
```

    opt_along_path_minimization_data = {'num_evals': 0,
                                           'evaluations' : [],
                                           'evaluation_points': [],
                                           'time': np.inf,
                                           'enrichments': 0}
    opt_dict = {} 
    tic = perf_counter()
    opt_along_path_result = minimize(partial(record_results_and_enrich, rom_objective_functional, 
                                             opt_along_path_minimization_data, opt_dict),
                                      initial_guess.to_numpy(),
                                      method='L-BFGS-B', 
                                      jac=partial(compute_gradient_with_opt_rom, opt_dict),
                                      bounds=(ranges, ranges),
                                      options={'ftol': 1e-15})
    opt_along_path_minimization_data['time'] = perf_counter()-tic

.. jupyter-execute::

    report(opt_along_path_result, opt_along_path_minimization_data, reference_mu)

    

The computational time looks at least better than the FOM optimization
and we are very close to the reference parameter saved some

> computational time. But we are following the exact same path than the

Reviewer 2: I do not understand the last part of the sentence and I am not sure about what you want to actually say here.

Author: For every optimization there is one enrichment step which requires to solve the FOM. I added this. 
Does it now make sense to you?

Reviewer 2: I think we are talking about different sentences, could that be? I do not understand the last part of 

> The computational time looks at least better than the FOM optimization and we are very close to the reference parameter saved some computational time.

Maybe it is just a language issue or I am just unable to understand what you mean here.

Author: Ah, yes wrong sentence. 
No you are absolutely right, the "saved some computational time" part is completely obsolete, thanks.

FOM and thus we need to solve the FOM model as often as before. The only
time that we safe is the one for the dual solution which we compute with
the ROM instead.

Adaptively enriching along the path
-----------------------------------

This makes us think about another idea where we only enrich if it is

> neccessary. For example it could be that the model is already good at

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
necessary. For example it could be the case that the model is already good at
```

compare all methods that we have discussed in this notebook.

.. jupyter-execute::

    print('FOM with finite differences')
    report(fom_result, reference_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nROM with finite differences')
    report(rom_result, RB_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nFOM with gradient')
    report(opt_fom_result, opt_fom_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nROM with gradient')
    report(opt_rom_result, opt_rom_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nAlways enrich along the path')
    report(opt_along_path_result, opt_along_path_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nAdaptively enrich along the path')
    report(opt_along_path_adaptively_result, opt_along_path_adaptively_minimization_data, reference_mu)

    

Some general words about MOR methods for optimization
-----------------------------------------------------

This notebook has shown several aspects on how to use RB methods for
reducing a FOM for an optimization problem. One main result from this
was that standard RB methods can help to reduce the computational time.
Thus, standard RB methods are especially of interest if an optimization

> problem might need to solved multiple times.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
problem might need to be solved multiple times.
```

            print('  time:               {:.5f} seconds'.format(data['time']))
            if 'offline_time' in data:
                    print('  offline time:       {:.5f} seconds'.format(data['offline_time']))
            if 'enrichments' in data:
                    print('  model enrichments:  {}'.format(data['enrichments']))
        print('')

Optimizing with the FOM using finite differences
------------------------------------------------

There exist plenty optimization methods, and this tutorial is not meant
to discuss the design and implementation of optimization methods. We
simply use the :func:`~scipy.optimize.minimize` function
from ``scipy.optimize`` and use the
builtin ``L-BFGS-B`` routine which is a quasi-Newton method that can
also handle a constrained parameter space.

It is optional to give an expression for the gradient of the objective
functional to the :func:`~scipy.optimize.minimize` function.
In case no gradient is given, :func:`~scipy.optimize.minimize`
just approximates the gradient with finite differences.
This is not recommended because the gradient is inexact and the
computation of finite differences requires even more evaluations of the

> primal equation. We anyway start with this approach.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
primal equation. Here, we use this approach for a simple demonstration.
```

solution :math:`u_{\mu}` (also called sensitivity). For this, we need to
solve another equation: Find :math:`d_{\mu_i} u_{\mu} \in V`, such that

.. math::

    \label{sens} \tag{2}
   a_\mu(d_{\mu_i} u_{\mu}, v) = \partial_{\mu_i} r_\mu^{\text{pr}}(u_{\mu})[v] \qquad \qquad \forall v \in V

where :math:`r_\mu^{\text{pr}}` denotes the residual of the primal
equation, i.e.

.. math::
        r_\mu^{\text{pr}(u)[v] := l_\mu(v) - a_\mu(u, v) &&\text{for all }v \in V

A major issue of this approach is that the computation of the
full gradient requires :math:`P` solutions of :math:`\eqref{sens}`.
Especially for high dimensional parameter spaces, we can instead use an
adjoint approach to reduce the computational cost to only one solution
of an additional problem.

The adjoint approach relies on the Lagrangian of the objective
functional

.. math::

   \mathcal{L}(u, \mu, p) = J(u, \mu) + r_\mu^{\text{pr}}(u, p)

where :math:`p \in V` is the adjoint variable. Deriving optimality
conditions for :math:`\mathcal{L}`, we end up with the dual equation:
Find :math:`p_{\mu} \in V`, such that

.. math::

    \label{dual} \tag{3}
   a_\mu(v, p_\mu) = \partial_u J(u_\mu, \mu)[v]
   = J(v, \mu)

> Note that in our case, we then have

Reviewer 3: Perhaps mention quickly why it vanishes here (spaces and so on).

Author: I wrote half a sentence more

    def rom_gradient_of_functional(mu):
        return rom.output_d_mu(rom.parameters.parse(mu), return_array=True, use_adjoint=True)
                
    
    opt_rom_minimization_data = {'num_evals': 0,
                                 'evaluations' : [],
                                 'evaluation_points': [],
                                 'time': np.inf,
                                 'offline_time': RB_greedy_data['time']}
    
    
    tic = perf_counter()
    opt_rom_result = minimize(partial(record_results, rom_objective_functional, opt_rom_minimization_data),
                      initial_guess,
                      method='L-BFGS-B', 
                      jac=rom_gradient_of_functional,
                      bounds=(ranges, ranges),
                      options={'ftol': 1e-15, 'gtol': 5e-5})
    opt_rom_minimization_data['time'] = perf_counter()-tic
    report(opt_rom_result, opt_rom_minimization_data, reference_mu)

    

The online phase is even slightly faster than before but the offline
phase is obviously still the same as before. We also conclude that the
ROM model eventually gives less speedup by using a better optimization
method for the FOM and ROM. 

> Breaking the traditional offline/online splitting: enrich along the path of optimization

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Beyond the traditional offline/online splitting: enrich along the path of optimization
```

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We already figured out that the main drawback for using RB methods in the
context of optimization is the expensive offline time to build the
surrogate model. In the example above, we overcame this issue by

> choosing a very high tolerance ``atol``. As a result, we cannot be sure

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
choosing a large value for ``atol``. As a result, we cannot be sure
```

    tic = perf_counter()
    opt_along_path_result = minimize(partial(record_results_and_enrich, rom_objective_functional, 
                                             opt_along_path_minimization_data, opt_dict),
                                      initial_guess,
                                      method='L-BFGS-B', 
                                      jac=partial(compute_gradient_with_opt_rom, opt_dict),
                                      bounds=(ranges, ranges),
                                      options={'ftol': 1e-15, 'gtol': 5e-5})
    opt_along_path_minimization_data['time'] = perf_counter()-tic

.. jupyter-execute::

    report(opt_along_path_result, opt_along_path_minimization_data, reference_mu)

    

The computational time looks at least better than the FOM optimization
and we are very close to the reference parameter.
But we are following the exact same path than the
FOM and thus we need to solve the FOM model as often as before
(due to the enrichments). The only computational time that we safe is the one
for the gradients since we compute the dual solutions with the ROM.

Adaptively enriching along the path
-----------------------------------

> This makes us think about another idea where we only enrich if it is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This gives rise to another idea where we only enrich if it is
```

necessary. For example it could be the case that the model is already good at
the next iteration, which we can easily check by evaluating the standard
error estimator which is also used in the greedy algorithm. In the next
example we will implement this adaptive way of enriching and set a

> tolerance which is equal to the one that we had in the as error tolerance

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
tolerance which is equal to the one that we had as error tolerance
```

    print('FOM with finite differences')
    report(fom_result, reference_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nROM with finite differences')
    report(rom_result, RB_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nFOM with gradient')
    report(opt_fom_result, opt_fom_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nROM with gradient')
    report(opt_rom_result, opt_rom_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nAlways enrich along the path')
    report(opt_along_path_result, opt_along_path_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nAdaptively enrich along the path')
    report(opt_along_path_adaptively_result, opt_along_path_adaptively_minimization_data, reference_mu)

.. jupyter-execute::
    :hide-code:
    :hide-output:
    
    assert fom_result.nit == 7
    assert opt_along_path_result.nit == 7
    assert opt_along_path_minimization_data['num_evals'] == 9
    assert opt_along_path_minimization_data['enrichments'] == 9
    assert opt_along_path_adaptively_minimization_data['enrichments'] == 4

    

Conclusion and some general words about MOR methods for optimization
--------------------------------------------------------------------

> In this tutorial we have seen how PyMOR can be used to speedup the optimizer

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this tutorial we have seen how pyMOR can be used to speedup the optimizer
```

Moreover, we focused on the lack of overall efficiency of standard RB methods.
To overcome this, we reduced the (normally) expensive offline time by choosing larger
tolerances for the greedy algorithm. 
We have also seen a way to overcome
the traditional offline/online splitting by only enriching the model along
the path of optimization or (even better) only enrich
the model if the standard error estimator goes above a certain tolerance.

A main drawback of the content in this tutorial was that the choice of
the tolerance ``atol`` that has been used to build the RB spaces
cannot be known a priorily. This shows the need for
certified and robust reduced methods. 

For some standard literature for faster and robust optimization tools we refer to
`CGT00 <https://epubs.siam.org/doi/book/10.1137/1.9780898719857?mobileUi=0>`__ and
`NW06 <https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-0-387-40065-5>`__.

For recent research on using trust-region methods for MOR of PDE-constrained
optimization problems, we refer to 
`YM13 <https://epubs.siam.org/doi/abs/10.1137/120869171>`__, 
`QGVW17 <https://epubs.siam.org/doi/abs/10.1137/16M1081981>`__ and 

> `KMSOV <https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.09297>`__ where for the latter, PyMOR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`KMSOV <https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.09297>`__ where for the latter, pyMOR
```

equation and can be arbitrarily complex. MOR methods in the context of
PDE-constrained optimization problems thus aim to find a surrogate model
of :math:`\eqref{eq:primal}` to reduce the computational costs of
an evaluation of :math:`J(u_{\mu}, \mu)`.

Since :math:`u_{\mu}` is always related to :math:`\mu`, we can also
simplify (P) by using the so-called reduced objective functional
:math:`\mathcal{J}(\mu):= J(u_{\mu}, \mu)`. Note that 'reduced' is not
referring to the order of the model. We get the reduced optimization
problem: Find a local minimizer of

.. math::

    
   \min_{\mu \in \mathcal{P}} \mathcal{J}(\mu).  \tag{$\hat{P}$}

There exist plenty of different methods to solve (:math:`\hat{P}`) by
using MOR methods. Some of them rely on an RB method with traditional
offline/online splitting, which typically result in a very online
efficient approach. Recent research also tackles overall efficiency by
overcoming the expensive offline phase, which we will discuss further
below.

In this tutorial, we use a simple linear scalar valued objective functional
and an elliptic primal equation to compare different approaches that solve

> (:math:`\hat{P}`). For a more advanced problem class, we refer to 

Author: I do not mention the reference here anymore due to the comment of @sdrave because I do not keep the referenced github project up to date with the pyMOR releases.

                                                                                 'sin(diffusion[0])']}),
              ExpressionParameterFunctional('1.1 + sin(diffusion[1])', parameters,
                                           derivative_expressions={'diffusion': ['0',
                                                                                 'cos(diffusion[1])']}),
    
                                           ]
    diffusion = LincombFunction([rest_of_domain, indicator_domain], thetas)
    
    theta_J = ExpressionParameterFunctional('1 + 1/5 * diffusion[0] + 1/5 * diffusion[1]', parameters,
                                               derivative_expressions={'diffusion': ['1/5','1/5']})
    
    problem = StationaryProblem(domain, f, diffusion, outputs=[('l2', f * theta_J)])

pyMOR supports to choose an output in |StationaryProblem|.
So far :math:`L^2` and :math:`L^2`-boundary
integrals over :math:`u_\mu`, multiplied by an arbitrary |Function|,
are supported. These outputs can also be handled by the discretizer. In
our case, we make use of the :math:`L^2` output and multiply it by the

> term :math:`\theta_\mu l_\mu`.

Author: This text block was removed already

We now use the standard builtin discretization tool (see :doc:`tutorial_builtin_discretizer`)
to construct a full order |StationaryModel|. Since we intend to use a fixed
energy norm

.. math:: \|\,.\|_{\bar{\mu}} : = a_{\,\bar{\mu}}(.,.),

we also define :math:`\bar{\mu}`, which we parse via the argument
``mu_energy_product``. Also, we define the parameter space
:math:`\mathcal{P}` on which we want to optimize.

.. jupyter-execute::

    mu_bar = problem.parameters.parse([np.pi/2,np.pi/2])
    
    fom, data = discretize_stationary_cg(problem, diameter=1/50, mu_energy_product=mu_bar)
    parameter_space = fom.parameters.space(0, np.pi)

In case, you need an output functional that can not be defined in the
|StationaryProblem|, we can also directly define the
``output_functional`` in the |StationaryModel|.

.. jupyter-execute::

    output_functional = fom.rhs.H * theta_J 

>     fom = fom.with_(output_functional=output_functional)

Author: You are right, I removed the block.

We now define a function that can be used by the minimizer below.

.. jupyter-execute::

    def fom_objective_functional(mu):
        return fom.output(mu)[0]

Of course, all optimization methods need a starting parameter,
which in our case is :math:`\mu_0 = (0.25,0.5)`.

.. jupyter-execute::

    initial_guess = fom.parameters.parse([0.25, 0.5])

Next, we visualize the diffusion function :math:`\lambda_\mu` by using
:class:`~pymor.discretizers.builtin.cg.InterpolationOperator` for interpolating it on the grid.

.. jupyter-execute::

    from pymor.discretizers.builtin.cg import InterpolationOperator
    
    diff = InterpolationOperator(data['grid'], problem.diffusion).as_vector(initial_guess)
    fom.visualize(diff)

.. jupyter-execute::

    print(data['grid'])

We can see that our FOM model has 20201 DoFs which just about suffices
to resolve the data structure in the diffusion. This suggests to use an
even finer mesh. However, for enabling a faster runtime for this
tutorial, we stick with this mesh and remark that refining the mesh does
not change the interpretation of the methods that are discussed below.
It rather aggravates the result.

> Before we start the first optimization method, we define helpful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we discuss the first optimization method, we define helpful
```

        X, Y = x, y
        fig = plt.figure()
        ax = fig.gca(projection='3d')
        x, y, f_of_x = compute_value_matrix(f, x, y)
        ax.plot_surface(x, y, f_of_x, cmap='Blues',
                        linewidth=0, antialiased=False, alpha=alpha)
        ax.view_init(elev=27.7597402597, azim=-39.6370967742)
        ax.set_xlim3d([-0.10457963, 3.2961723])
        ax.set_ylim3d([-0.10457963, 3.29617229])
        return ax
    
    def addplot_xy_point_as_bar(ax, x, y, color='orange', z_range=None):
        ax.plot([y, y], [x, x], z_range if z_range else ax.get_zlim(), color)

Now, we can visualize the objective functional on the parameter space

.. jupyter-execute::

    ranges = parameter_space.ranges['diffusion']
    XX = np.linspace(ranges[0] + 0.05, ranges[1], 10)
    YY = XX
    
    plot_3d_surface(fom_objective_functional, XX, YY)
    

Taking a closer look at the functional, we see that it is at least
locally convex with a locally unique minimum. In general, however,
PDE-constrained optimization problems are not convex. In our case
changing the parameter functional :math:`\theta_{\mathcal{J}}` can
already result in a very different non-convex output functional.

> In order to record some data in the optimization, we also define two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to record some data during the optimization, we also define two
```

helpful functions for recording and reporting the results.

.. jupyter-execute::

    reference_minimization_data = {'num_evals': 0,
                                   'evaluations' : [],
                                   'evaluation_points': [],
                                   'time': np.inf}
    
    def record_results(function, data, mu):
        QoI = function(mu)
        data['num_evals'] += 1
        # we need to make sure to copy the data, since the added mu will be changed inplace by minimize afterwards

>         data['evaluation_points'].append([fom.parameters.parse(mu)['diffusion'][:][0], 
>                                           fom.parameters.parse(mu)['diffusion'][:][1]])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        data['evaluation_points'].append(fom.parameters.parse(mu).to_numpy())
```
should be sufficient?

        data['evaluations'].append(QoI[0])
        return QoI
    
    def report(result, data, reference_mu=None):
        if (result.status != 0):
            print('\n failed!')
        else:
            print('\n succeeded!')
            print('  mu_min:    {}'.format(fom.parameters.parse(result.x)))
            print('  J(mu_min): {}'.format(result.fun[0]))
            if reference_mu is not None:
                print('  absolute error w.r.t. reference solution: {:.2e}'.format(np.linalg.norm(result.x-reference_mu)))
            print('  num iterations:     {}'.format(result.nit))
            print('  num function calls: {}'.format(data['num_evals']))

>             print('  time: {:.5f} seconds'.format(data['time']))

Reviewer: maybe align the printed values?

            if 'offline_time' in data:
                print('  offline time: {:.5f} seconds'.format(data['offline_time']))
            if 'enrichments' in data:
                print('  model enrichments: {}'.format(data['enrichments']))
        print('')

Optimizing with the FOM using finite differences
------------------------------------------------

> There exist plenty optimization methods and this tutorial is not meant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There exist plenty optimization methods, and this tutorial is not meant
```

also handle a constrained parameter space.

It is optional to give an expression for the gradient of the objective
functional to the :func:`~scipy.optimize.minimize` function.
In case no gradient is given, :func:`~scipy.optimize.minimize`
just approximates the gradient with finite differences.
This is not recommended because the gradient is inexact and the
computation of finite differences requires even more evaluations of the
primal equation. We anyway start with this approach.

.. jupyter-execute::

    from functools import partial
    from scipy.optimize import minimize
    
    tic = perf_counter()
    fom_result = minimize(partial(record_results, fom_objective_functional, reference_minimization_data),
                          initial_guess.to_numpy(),
                          method='L-BFGS-B', jac=False,
                          bounds=(ranges, ranges),
                          options={'ftol': 1e-15})
    reference_minimization_data['time'] = perf_counter()-tic
    reference_mu = fom_result.x

.. jupyter-execute::

    report(fom_result, reference_minimization_data)

Taking a look at the result, we see that the optimizer needs :math:`9`

> iterations to converge, but actually needs :math:`48` evaluations of the

Reviewer: In the documentatio generated by CI we have 36 function calls ...

full order model. Obiously, this is related to the computation of the
finite differences. We can visualize the optimization path by plotting
the chosen points during the minimization.

.. jupyter-execute::

    reference_plot = plot_3d_surface(fom_objective_functional, XX, YY, alpha=0.5)
    
    for mu in reference_minimization_data['evaluation_points']:
        addplot_xy_point_as_bar(reference_plot, mu[0], mu[1])

Optimizing with the ROM using finite differences
------------------------------------------------

We can use a standard RB method to build a surrogate model for the FOM.
As a result, the solution of the primal equation is no longer expensive
and the optimization method can evaluate the objective functional quickly.
For this, we define a standard :class:`~pymor.reductors.coercive.CoerciveRBReductor` 
and use the :class:`~pymor.parameters.functionals.MinThetaParameterFunctional` for an
estimation of the coerciviy constant.

.. jupyter-execute::

>     from pymor.algorithms.greedy import rb_greedy
>     from pymor.reductors.coercive import CoerciveRBReductor
>     
>     from pymor.parameters.functionals import MinThetaParameterFunctional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    from pymor.algorithms.greedy import rb_greedy
    from pymor.parameters.functionals import MinThetaParameterFunctional    
    from pymor.reductors.coercive import CoerciveRBReductor
```

    
    coercivity_estimator = MinThetaParameterFunctional(fom.operator.coefficients, mu_bar)
    

>     training_set = parameter_space.sample_uniformly(25)

Reviewer: Move to code block where greedy training is performed.

>     training_set_simple = [mu['diffusion'] for mu in training_set]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Unused?

    
    RB_reductor = CoerciveRBReductor(fom, product=fom.energy_product, coercivity_estimator=coercivity_estimator)

Using MOR for PDE-constrained optimization goes beyond the classical

> online efficiency of RB methods. It is not meaningful to ignore the

Reviewer: That sentence is somewhat nebulous.

offline time of the surrogate model since it can happen that FOM
optimization methods would already converge before the surrogate model
is even ready. Thus, the RB optimization methods (at least for only one
configuration) aims for overall efficiency which includes offline and
online time. Of course, this effect aggravates if the parameter space is

> high dimensional.

Reviewer: Might not be obvious to the reader.

In order to decrease the offline time we realize that we do not require
a perfect surrogate model in the sense that a low error tolerance for

> the :func:`~pymor.algorithms.greedy.rb_greedy` already suffices to converge to the same minimum. In

Reviewer: How do we realize that?

our case we choose ``atol=1e-2`` and yield a very low dimensional space.
In general, however, it is not a priorily clear how to choose ``atol``
in order to arrive at a minimum which is close enough to the true
optimum.

.. jupyter-execute::

    RB_greedy_data = rb_greedy(fom, RB_reductor, training_set, atol=1e-2)
    
    num_RB_greedy_extensions = RB_greedy_data['extensions']
    RB_greedy_mus, RB_greedy_errors = RB_greedy_data['max_err_mus'], RB_greedy_data['max_errs']
    
    rom = RB_greedy_data['rom']
    
    print('RB system is of size {}x{}'.format(num_RB_greedy_extensions, num_RB_greedy_extensions))
    print('maximum estimated model reduction error over training set: {}'.format(RB_greedy_errors[-1]))

> As we can see the greedy already stops after :math:`3` basis functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we can see that the greedy algorithm already stops after :math:`3` basis functions.
```

I really don't understand why people like to use 'greedy' as a proper noun.

choosing ``atol``.

To show that the ROM optimization roughly followed the same path as the
FOM optimization, we visualize both of them in the following plot.

.. jupyter-execute::

    reference_plot = plot_3d_surface(fom_objective_functional, XX, YY, alpha=0.5)
    reference_plot_mean_z_lim = 0.5*(reference_plot.get_zlim()[0] + reference_plot.get_zlim()[1])
    
    for mu in reference_minimization_data['evaluation_points']:
        addplot_xy_point_as_bar(reference_plot, mu[0], mu[1], color='green',
                                z_range=(reference_plot.get_zlim()[0], reference_plot_mean_z_lim))
    
    for mu in RB_minimization_data['evaluation_points']:
        addplot_xy_point_as_bar(reference_plot, mu[0], mu[1], color='orange',
                               z_range=(reference_plot_mean_z_lim, reference_plot.get_zlim()[1]))

Computing the gradient of the objective functional
--------------------------------------------------

A major issue of using finite differences for computing the gradient of
the objective functional is the number of evaluations of the objective
functional. In the FOM example from above we saw that

> :math:`48 - 9 = 39` evaluations of the model were only due to the

Reviewer: See above.

computation of the finite differences. If the problem is more complex
and the mesh is finer, this can lead to a serious waste of
computational time. Also from an optimizational point of view it is
always better to compute the true gradient of the objective functional.

For computing the gradient of the linear objective functional
:math:`\mathcal{J}(\mu)`, we can write for every direction
:math:`i= 1, \dots, P`

.. math::

   \begin{align} \label{gradient:sens} \tag{1}
   d_{\mu_i} \mathcal{J}(\mu) = \partial_{\mu_i} J(u_{\mu}, \mu) + \partial_u J(u_{\mu}, \mu)[d_{\mu_i} u_{\mu}] 
      =   \partial_{\mu_i} J(u_{\mu}, \mu) + J(d_{\mu_i} u_{\mu}, \mu)
   \end{align}

> where :math:`d` means total derivative and :math:`\partial` means
> partial derivative. Thus, we need to compute the derivative of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, we need to compute the derivative of the
```

solution :math:`u_{\mu}` (also called sensitivity). For this, we need to
solve another equation: Find :math:`d_{\mu_i} u_{\mu} \in V`, such that

.. math::

    \label{sens} \tag{2}
   a_\mu(d_{\mu_i} u_{\mu}, v) = \partial_{\mu_i} r_\mu^{\text{pr}}(u_{\mu})[v] \qquad \qquad \forall v \in V

where :math:`r_\mu^{\text{pr}}` denotes the residual of the primal

> equation. A major issue of this approach is that the computation of the

Reviewer: Define 'primal residual'.

full gradient requires :math:`P` solutions of :math:`\eqref{sens}`.

> Especially for high dimensional parameter spaces, we can instead use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Especially for high dimensional parameter spaces, we can instead use an
```

adjoint approach to reduce the computational cost to only one solution
of an additional problem.

The adjoint approach relies on the Lagrangian of the objective
functional

.. math::

   \mathcal{L}(u, \mu, p) = J(u, \mu) + r_\mu^{\text{pr}}(u, p)

where :math:`p \in V` is the adjoint variable. Deriving optimality
conditions for :math:`\mathcal{L}`, we end up with the dual equation:
Find :math:`p_{\mu} \in V`, such that

.. math::

    \label{dual} \tag{3}

>    a_\mu(v, p_\mu) = \partial_u J(u_\mu, \mu)[v]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   a_\mu(v, p_\mu) = \partial_u J(u, \mu)[v]
```

   = J(v, \mu)

Note that in our case, we then have
:math:`\mathcal{L}(u_{\mu}, \mu, p_{\mu}) = J(u, \mu)` because the
residual term :math:`r_\mu^{\text{pr}}(u_{\mu}, p_{\mu})` vanishes. By

> using the dual problem, we can then derive the gradient of the objective

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the solution of the dual problem, we can then derive the gradient of the objective
```

functional by

.. math::

   \begin{align} 
   d_{\mu_i} \mathcal{J}(\mu) &= \partial_{\mu_i} J(u_{\mu}, \mu) + \partial_u J(u_{\mu}, \mu)[d_{\mu_i} u_{\mu}] \\ 
      &=   \partial_{\mu_i} J(u_{\mu}, \mu) + a_\mu(d_{\mu_i} u_{\mu}, p_\mu) \\
      &=   \partial_{\mu_i} J(u_{\mu}, \mu) + \partial_{\mu_i} r_\mu^{\text{pr}}(d_{\mu_i} u_{\mu})[p_\mu]
   \end{align}

We conclude that we only need to solve for :math:`u_{\mu}` and
:math:`p_{\mu}` if we want to compute the gradient with the adjoint
approach. For more information on this approach we refer to Section 1.6.2 in [HPUU09]_.

We now intend to use the gradient to speed up the optimization methods
from above. All technical requirements are
already available in pyMOR.

Optimizing using a gradient in FOM
----------------------------------

We can easily include a function to compute the gradient to :func:`~scipy.optimize.minimize`.

> For using the adjoint approach we have to explicitly enable the ``use_adjoint`` argument.

Reviewer: I thought it was enabled by default?

Note that using the (more general) default implementation ``use_adjoint=False`` results
in the exact same gradient but lacks computational speed.

> Moreover, the function ``output_d_mu`` returns a dict w.r.t. the parameter space as default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, the function ``output_d_mu`` returns a dict w.r.t. the parameters as default.
```

        return rom.output_d_mu(rom.parameters.parse(mu), return_array=True, use_adjoint=True)
                
    
    opt_rom_minimization_data = {'num_evals': 0,
                                 'evaluations' : [],
                                 'evaluation_points': [],
                                 'time': np.inf,
                                 'offline_time': RB_greedy_data['time']}
    
    
    tic = perf_counter()
    opt_rom_result = minimize(partial(record_results, rom_objective_functional, opt_rom_minimization_data),
                      initial_guess.to_numpy(),
                      method='L-BFGS-B', 
                      jac=rom_gradient_of_functional,
                      bounds=(ranges, ranges),
                      options={'ftol': 1e-15})
    opt_rom_minimization_data['time'] = perf_counter()-tic
    report(opt_rom_result, opt_rom_minimization_data, reference_mu)

    

The online phase is even slightly faster than before but the offline
phase is obviously still the same as before. We also conclude that the
ROM model eventually gives less speedup by using a better optimization
method for the FOM and ROM. This is something that is a common issue for

> MOR methods in the context of optimization.

Reviewer: I would remove the last sentence. Sounds a bit like 'don't use better optimization methods'.

Breaking the traditional offline/online splitting: enrich along the path of optimization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We already figured out that the main drawback for using RB methods in the
context of optimization is the expensive offline time to build the
surrogate model. In the example above, we overcame this issue by

> choosing a very high tolerance ``atol``. As a result, we can not be sure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
choosing a very high tolerance ``atol``. As a result, we cannot be sure
```

that our surrogate model is accurate enough for our purpuses. In other
words, either we invest too much time to build an accurate model or we
face the danger of reducing with a bad surrogate for the whole parameter
space. Thinking about this issue again, it is important to notice that
we are solving an optimization problem which will eventually converge to
a certain parameter. Thus, it only matters that the surrogate is good in
this particular region as long as we are able to arrive at it. This
gives hope that there must exist a more efficient way of using RB
methods without trying to approximate the FOM across the
whole parameter space.

One possible way for advanced RB methods is a reduction along the path

> of optimization. The idea is, that we start with an empty basis and only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of optimization. The idea is that we start with an empty basis and only
```

enrich the model with the parameters that we will arive at. This
approach goes beyond the classical offline/online splitting of RB
methods since it entirely skips the offline phase. In the following
code, we will test this method.

.. jupyter-execute::

    pdeopt_reductor = CoerciveRBReductor(
        fom, product=fom.energy_product, coercivity_estimator=coercivity_estimator)

In the next function, we implement the above mentioned way of enriching
the basis along the path of optimization.

.. jupyter-execute::

    def record_results_and_enrich(function, data, opt_dict, mu):
        U = fom.solve(mu)
        try:
            pdeopt_reductor.extend_basis(U)
            data['enrichments'] += 1
        except:
            print('Extension failed')
        opt_rom = pdeopt_reductor.reduce()
        QoI = rom.output(mu)
        data['num_evals'] += 1
        # we need to make sure to copy the data, since the added mu will be changed inplace by minimize afterwards
        data['evaluation_points'].append([fom.parameters.parse(mu)['diffusion'][:][0], 

>                                           fom.parameters.parse(mu)['diffusion'][:][1]])

Reviewer: See above.

        data['evaluations'].append(QoI[0])
        opt_dict['opt_rom'] = rom 

>         return QoI

Reviewer: Can't you call the `record_results` function from above?

    
    def compute_gradient_with_opt_rom(opt_dict, mu):
        opt_rom = opt_dict['opt_rom']
        return opt_rom.output_d_mu(opt_rom.parameters.parse(mu), return_array=True, use_adjoint=True)

> .. jupyter-execute::

Reviewer: This seems to be concatenated in the output without any space inbetween. And some text between the cells?

                                           'time': np.inf,
                                           'enrichments': 0}
    opt_dict = {} 
    tic = perf_counter()
    opt_along_path_result = minimize(partial(record_results_and_enrich, rom_objective_functional, 
                                             opt_along_path_minimization_data, opt_dict),
                                      initial_guess.to_numpy(),
                                      method='L-BFGS-B', 
                                      jac=partial(compute_gradient_with_opt_rom, opt_dict),
                                      bounds=(ranges, ranges),
                                      options={'ftol': 1e-15})
    opt_along_path_minimization_data['time'] = perf_counter()-tic

.. jupyter-execute::

    report(opt_along_path_result, opt_along_path_minimization_data, reference_mu)

    

The computational time looks at least better than the FOM optimization
and we are very close to the reference parameter.
But we are following the exact same path than the
FOM and thus we need to solve the FOM model as often as before
(due to the enrichments). The only time that we safe is the one

> for the dual solution which we compute with the ROM instead.

Reviewer: Gradients?

Adaptively enriching along the path
-----------------------------------

This makes us think about another idea where we only enrich if it is
necessary. For example it could be the case that the model is already good at
the next iteration, which we can easily check by evaluating the standard
error estimator which is also used in the greedy algorithm. In the next
example we will implement this adaptive way of enriching and set a
tolerance which is equal to the one that we had in the construction of

> the greedy.

Reviewer: How do you construct a greedy?

.. jupyter-execute::

    def record_results_and_enrich_adaptively(function, data, opt_dict, mu):
        opt_rom = opt_dict['opt_rom'] 
        primal_estimate = opt_rom.estimate_error(opt_rom.parameters.parse(mu))
        if primal_estimate > 1e-2:
            print('Enriching the space because primal estimate is {} ...'.format(primal_estimate))
            U = fom.solve(mu)
            try:
                pdeopt_reductor.extend_basis(U)
                data['enrichments'] += 1
                opt_rom = pdeopt_reductor.reduce()
            except:
                print('... Extension failed')
        else:
            print('Do NOT enrich the space because primal estimate is {} ...'.format(primal_estimate))
        opt_rom = pdeopt_reductor.reduce()
        QoI = opt_rom.output(mu)
        data['num_evals'] += 1
        # we need to make sure to copy the data, since the added mu will be changed inplace by minimize afterwards
        data['evaluation_points'].append([fom.parameters.parse(mu)['diffusion'][:][0], 
                                          fom.parameters.parse(mu)['diffusion'][:][1]])
        data['evaluations'].append(QoI[0])
        opt_dict['opt_rom'] = opt_rom 

>         return QoI

Reviewer: See above.

compare all methods that we have discussed in this notebook.

.. jupyter-execute::

    print('FOM with finite differences')
    report(fom_result, reference_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nROM with finite differences')
    report(rom_result, RB_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nFOM with gradient')
    report(opt_fom_result, opt_fom_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nROM with gradient')
    report(opt_rom_result, opt_rom_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nAlways enrich along the path')
    report(opt_along_path_result, opt_along_path_minimization_data, reference_mu)
    
    print('\nAdaptively enrich along the path')
    report(opt_along_path_adaptively_result, opt_along_path_adaptively_minimization_data, reference_mu)

.. jupyter-execute::
    :hide-code:
    :hide-output:
    
    assert fom_result.nit == 10
    assert opt_along_path_result.nit == 8
    assert opt_along_path_minimization_data['num_evals'] == 10
    assert opt_along_path_minimization_data['enrichments'] == 9
    assert opt_along_path_adaptively_minimization_data['enrichments'] == 4

> 

Reviewer: This still depends on the magic tolerance for enriching the model. Probably an easy way around this is to do one optimization step for the FOM after converging. If this changes anything, the ROM tolerance was too large. Probably too much work for the tutorial, but one might at least discuss the possibility.

and low dimensional problem with a linear output functional. Especially
going to high dimensional parameter spaces and non linear output
functionals would aggravate this effect even more.

To resolve this issue we have seen a way to overcome the traditional
offline/online splitting and saw that it is a good idea to enrich the
model along the path of the optimization or (even better) only enrich
the model if the standard error estimator goes above a certain
tolerance.

Furthermore, higher order optmization methods with accessible gradient
or hessian make FOM methods take even less steps. Also in this case,
adaptive RB methods still reduce the computational demand of the
optimization method.

For more advanced methods and problems on this topic, we refer to
Trust-Region methods, quadratic objective functionals, inverse problems
or higher order optimization methods. A Trust-Region method for
quadratic objective functionals with a non-conforming RB approach has
been considered in `this (arXiv)
paper <https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.09297>`__, where pyMOR has been used
for the MOR part. You can see the whole code and all numerical results
in `this

> project <https://github.com/TiKeil/NCD-corrected-TR-RB-approach-for-pde-opt>`__.

Reviewer: Only citing your own preprint regarding RB methods for optimization sounds like a bit too much of self-advertisement. Please also reference some published standard literature as well.
